A former collaborator of mine, Sky Jason Shields, once described to me why he was interested in virology. To paraphrase, it was because the virus is a veritable particle in the living field, it would be extremely sensitive to anomalies in that field. The virus (and the embryo, another of Sky's "living particles") was an ideal test subject to study, in order to learn more about [biological spacetime](https://21sci-tech.com/articles/ProblemsBiogeochemistry.pdf) in general. It's like using iron filings to study the magnetic field.

Asteroids are the veritable particles of planetary bodies, and thus the perfect sensitive instruments with which to probe the principles of universal gravitation.

Kepler discovered universal gravitation.  A component of that discovery was that the geometric ellipse was captured in the natural world by planets that orbit the Sun. In Kepler's universe, the planets were not bound to their orbits by a central force exerted by the Sun.  Rather, the orbits are the primary objects, organized according to visual and audio harmonics.  The motions of the planets just followed these orbits.  Planetary motion was not governed by kinetic Newtonian pushes and pulls.  Newton's force was a later, and unnecessary, invention. To Kepler, it wouldn't be so clear that the deviations from elliptical motion were being caused by the nudges from other planets.  The deviations would be a feature of the orbits themselves.

Maybe Gauss thought something similar.

What we know - at least those of us that haven't read all Gauss's notes or correspondence - is that the final product of Gauss's interest in planetary purturbations was a strange 1819 paper on the orbit of asteroid Pallas. In this paper, Gauss shows that the secular variations in the elliptical orbit of Pallas, ostensibly caused by the passing of Jupiter, are independent of the positions of either Pallas or Jupiter. The secular varations are dependent on the properties of the orbits themselves. He showed that you can reproduce those variations by distributing the mass of the asteroid continuously around its orbit, with density proportional to orbital speed (or, distance from the Sun).

No actual planets needed.

Because Gauss typically hid his true intentions with a polished, mathematically pristine final product, we can play around with some ideas of what he was really studying.  If the perturbations are manifestations of the orbits themselves, then the ellipses are first order approximations of more complex geometries.  Perhaps, the geometric ellipses of Kepler were members of a family of higher transcendental curves, which the sensitive asteroids would betray with their anomalous motions.


Perhaps mathematics, specifically the study of elliptical functions, could be informed by physics, in this case planetary motion.

Maybe there was no effect generated by invisible forces at all.

An alternative would be that the asteroids were simply more sensitive to subtle to deviations from a perfect ellipse made by the true orbital path.

The ellipse could be a first order approximation to the true orbital path.

To discover higher order approximations (think "harmonics"), study the slight deviations made by the asteroids.

The driving principle is thus the orbit, not the object floating around along that orbit.

In other words, our understanding of elliptical functions would be advanced by hunting for the anomalies in elliptical motions revealed by the motions of the asteroids.


