
"Miranda dark roast, drip.  Got it.  what's your name?"

"Mark."

Mark Paris watched the barista write "Bart" on the plastic cup, and then place it on the counter.  Slightly annoyed, Mark looked around Elsinore Base coffee shop.  But for the view outside, it wouldn't be hard to mistake the place for a small Starbucks back on old Terra Firma.  Espresso machines spitting out steam like suddenly disturbed pit bulls.  A small, homemade batch of probably tasty pastries under a glass surface.  A few metal tables sporting metal chairs with blue plastic rectangles for backs, three of which were occupied by what looked like super tall college students staring hard into their laptops, fat headphones covering most of their heads.

But then there was the view.  Instead of an urban intersection with cars waiting for their light to turn; Uranus.  Big, pale green Uranus.  Mark remembered the feelings he'd had when he was a kid back in Philadelphia, looking up at those tall buildings.  Or looking down from mile-high ComcastMeta One, the head spinning, eyes watering vertigo.  That experience does not prepare you for being face to face with a planet, floating in the deep black of space.

Uranus.  The butt of all juvenile jokes.  It was too big to all fit in one viewport.  When Mark walked right up to the viewport and smashed his face against it, he could still only barely make out the right limb of the planet.  As he watched, that limb slowly migrated up the rim of the viewport, and for a moment Mark could almost feel himself rotating downward while the planet stayed still.  But only for a moment.

The SNEEZE, SPIT, HISS of an espresso machine brought his attention back to what tall Uranus girl was doing.  She had already placed the paper filter into the steel funnel and filled it with those sweet, semi-coarse grounds, and was just starting to pour the scalding water.  Mark watched the thin stream of dark joy snake from the bottom of the cone down into his cup.

For a few moments, Mark could almost convince himself that the drip of coffee followed a straight line, instead of the slightly antispinward, curved arc that all falling objects followed on a rotating space station.  And those few moments brought his imagination back to when he almost killed himself and destroyed his ship.

***

"Mark, are you getting all this?"

Mark wrenched his eyes away from a pale green plastic canister that had arrested his attention, and looked at a display of various video feeds and metrics.  Mark certainly had not been getting this.  "Uh, sorry, what?"

"Mark!" yelled Windy Rogers-Chan, one of the two-man fix team out repairing Guard-4, a communications relay satellite at the Uranus-Sun Lagrange 4 point, near the Uranian Trojan asteroids.  Though system communication could still go via the L5 station, AT&T liked to have full redundancy.  If Guard-5 was also lost, it would badly hinder communications among the outer planets.

The other fixer, Alejandro Cota, was waiting patiently, looking at Windy's headcam, with his gloved paw resting on the open door of an access panel.  Inside were a couple cards that were designed to be replaceable in case of a failure or upgrade.  One of the cards was clearly missing.

"I know it's hard work sitting on your ass up there, Mark, but I need you to acknowledge that the C-card is missing, and that it was missing when Alex opened the panel," said Windy.

"Oh, yeah," stammered Mark, "clearly C-card is gone, and was missing before Alex opened the panel."

"Thanks Mark," replied Windy, "Back to work, pal."

Mark considered the issue.  First, the damage is easily repaired, since their ship carried a stock of all the regular cards.  Second, more importantly, this is now the third L4 job where they'd run into a missing C-card.  These things don't fall out on their own.  Maybe the manufacturer or a previous fix team forgot to put it in.  But then the laser would fail to stay aligned from the get go.  Or, somebody had removed it.  This was much more likely, though also much more strange.

But wasn't it hard to think clearly about a Solar System-wide ring of satellite saboteurs when you haven't had your coffee yet?

The coffee maker was broken, and needed new parts to function.

Mark hadn't had coffee in three Earth days.

Mark's team could fix any problem on a laser communication satellite, but couldn't fix the coffee maker.  Mark absolutely thirsted for coffee.  Especially for Miranda Dark roast, which sat perfectly ground in that pale green canister he was holding with both hands.

***

Miranda Dark.  A long growth, low field variety.

On Earth, coffee is grown high in the mountains.  The higher up you can grow it, but still remain below freezing, the denser the bean.  Denser beans, like those from Ethiopia or Columbia, are the sweetest and most acidic.  And also the most coveted.

Cultivars had tried reproducing those conditions in controlled environments on Earth, but with mixed results.  There was something about being high up that produced fantastic beans, which included sharp swings in temperature, low pest pressures, intense light, and lower oxygen content, but also something else.  A _je ne sais qua_ that advantaged those Colombian and Ethiopian farmers.

It may have been that those beans just wanted to get outside the Earth's protective geomagnetic field.  Because, oh, did the flavor profiles expand once we started growing coffee in space.  The first off-planet varietals were grown on the Moon by American colonists.  The taste may not have been as delicious as the best Ethiopian brew, but the profile was so significantly different that Lunar Beans became a bit of a delicacy sought after by terrestrial connoisseurs.

Today, we know that coffee beans respond differently to all growing locations in the Solar System.  Botanists still don't understand the exact configuration of conditions that produce these novel flavor profiles, but it seems that, as long as the farmer is skilled at growing the bean, the taste is governed by the geometric position of the growing bean relative to the Sun and other celestial bodies.

***

The job would take another hour or two to complete, as Mark imagined what those beans would become once brewed.

As Mark tasted the anticipated sweetness of the coffee, he fantasized about various brew methods.  On Earth, he could just grab a French press and brew the perfect carafe.  He could almost see the 175 F water being poured into the dry grounds, watching them swirl and dance as the carafe filled.  Or maybe a cone filter, watching the dark soil rise to the top, while the pot below filled with the black ichor, a pungent odor wafting into his nostrils.  Hell, Mark would use a regular drip coffee maker, or even, Heaven forbid!, a percolator at this point.  Anything!

Mark heard Windy rattling off some description, but he wasn't listening.  He was staring at that pale green canister.  Imagining which fruits he would taste after getting hit with that first acidic sweetness.

Enough!  The only thing Mark was missing here was gravity.  There was an old cone drip funnel down in the mess hall, which they used when accelerating between planets.  Instead of dripping into a mug, mark could use one of the old NASA space cups.  Colloquially dubbed the "pussy cup" by some guys in the laser communication mechanics union, int had been designed over a hundred years ago to hold coffee while in freefall, using the liquid's adhesive properties.  But, it did look like a cross between a squid's backside, a vagina, and a rustic teapot.

Mark snapped the magnetic bottom of the can to the stainless steel console and leaped towards the hatch.  He passed through three more portals before arriving at the mess hall.  It was quite sparse on the surface, and looked like any other floor.  But the cabinets held all kinds of food stuffs, packaged in varieties of plastic bags, tubes, and cans.  Enough to sustain a crew of three for many months in space.

He strung everything to a big mommy hook, clipped it to a strap on his pants, and hurried back up to the command deck.  Once there, he carefully arranged everything, sitting normal to the forward panel.  Cup, cone filter.  Then he placed the measuring cup, water tube, and coffee can lovingly next to the apparatus.  Last, he programmed the ship's computer to run a series of maneuvers that would last ten minutes, before returning exactly to the current position.

Mark got into position, finger hovering over the GO button.  Suddenly remembering his crew out in the harsh black of space, he checked their stats and their image in the cameras.  All good.

"Uh, guys, don't be alarmed.  I'm going to test something with _Banshee's_ side thrusters.  Should only take about ten minutes."

In the video feed, Mark saw Windy freeze.  "Mark?"  She was staring into the camera now, eyes digging deep into Mark's conscience.  "What are you doing?"

"It's OK, won't take long.  Don't worry."

Mark's finger hit GO.

At first, it was hard to tell anything was happening.  But then Mark started to feel pressure on his body, as he got pressed gently against the front panel.

The ship had started to tumble, end over end, slowly gaining rotational speed.  When Mark felt enough pressure, he started to smile, and popped open the coffee can.

The most wonderful symphony of smells burst into the atmosphere.  Cherry, lime, lilac, oak.  Mark almost cried as he carefully spooned grounds into the cone filter.  Then, as the ship got up to speed, he began pumping steaming water over the coffee.

Then, Mark started feeling dizzy.  "Mark, what the fuck are you doing?" he heard Windy ask.  But he watched as the first drips came down from the funnel.  They didn't come down straight, but in a clear arc, splashing onto the panel next to the flesh colored cup.  Getting dizzier, Mark pushed the cup under the stream, and continued to fill the funnel with water.








Then it struck him - the missing ingredient in all these brew methods was gravity.  Or, to be specific, an acceleration of the pot and grounds against the freefall of the hot water.  If Mark could simulate the gravity, he could produce a brew.

Though the ship's coffee press was broken, the ship could still bring water to a boil.  Boiling water was produced routinely on all ships these days, as the primary way to cool the fusion engines, and to warm the cabin.  Mark just needed an acceleration.  His team wouldn't take kindly to seeing the ship zoom away into the black of space, so a linear acceleration was out of the question.  But maybe Mark could generate a centripetal acceleration, like the rotating space stations.

Without another thought, Mark clicked the magnetic canister to the steel console, and push off toward the mess hall.  There, he found some think micropore paper that could be used as a coffee filter, and a cylinder that would serve as brew vessel.  There were no cups proper on the ship, since they were useless in freefall, but he could certainly aim the drip into one of the larger pussy cups.

After gathering supplies, Mark headed back to the front of the ship and set up his coffee maker.  This was going to work!

Pussy cup against console, brew vessel atop pussy cup, filter stuffed into vessel, and he was ready.  Mark zoomed back to mess and filled a hots bottle with boiling water from the system dispenser, and zoomed back to his glorious apparatus.

Mark programmed the ship to start spinning slowly and then when up to speed, spin for seven minutes (optimal brew time being five minutes), then slow back to a halt.

Finally, Mark grabbed the can of grounds.  Carefully opening it, Mark released the beautiful bouquet of sharp, skunky odor, and carefully pushed a pile of coffee into the vessel.
