01

Zoom-in of the LxCCs as seen in 21 cm data from the GALFA-HI survey (Opher et al. 2024)

This image shows the speed of neutral hydrogen atoms (21 cm spectral line).  Red is $8 km s^{-1}$, green $8.7 km s^{-1}$, and blue $9.5 km s^{-1}$.  The cold, dense clouds stand out in red-green on the left, and blue on the right.  The view is in the direction of [???]

02

Cartoon of the LRCC and its three-dimensional velocity (Opher et al. 2024)

This is a 3D view of the LRCC, the gray blobs at the top.  The red blobs to the right are the LxCC, and the dashed line represents a possible path the sun has taken.  The gray dashed blobs are where the Sun had a 68% chance of passing through.  The authors note that those blobs only take up 1.3% of the entire night sky.

04

Three-dimensional image of the heliosphere (Opher et al. 2024)

This shows side (a) and top (b) view of the sun's heliosphere while getting blown away by the LxCC.  The image was generated by the numerical model Opher et al. used.  Note that the red circle, which is roughly Earth's orbit, is mostly outside the heliosphere.

05

View of the heliosphere 2 Ma (Opher et al. 2024)

This is another view from the numerical model.  It's a contour plot, where the contours represent speed of gas.  The heliosphere gets stretched out dramatically.

06

A closer view of the heliosphere 2 Ma (Opher et al. 2024)

These images are close ups of the same numerical model.  

Figure (a) shows the strength of the Sun's magnetic field (red is strong, blue weak).

Figure (b) shows the density of charged ions.  Red represents "really packed tight", while blue represents areas where there isn't much charged matter.  This shows where electromagnetic forces dominate.

Figure (c) shows the density of neutral atoms.  Note that the charged ions remain tight with the Sun's magnetic field, while the neutrals spread out.  This shows how kinetic effects affect gas around the heliosphere, with the density gradient rapidly building near the edges of the heliosphere.

Figure (d) shows speed of gas, with the Sun at the center.  The dark black circle around the red is the Sun's heliopause, where the ISM wins the push battle with the solar wind.  Note that matter leaves the Sun, but quickly gets swept backward once leaving the heliosphere.
